I, uh, had some communications with him
All at the same  time.  I don't know if - I would get distracted and confused, probably.
I  will  have time to do some revision and some additional stuff on various airplanes and trains. So,
how things are construed, and then the idea is to use ontology, situation, user, and
discourse model to instantiate elements in the classes of the probabilistic relational model  to do some inferences in terms of what is being construed as  what
in our beloved tourism domain.
And  any  type of comment whether it's a spelling or a syntax or
That's when I'm meeting with Wolfgang Wahlster to
Then I'm  also  going to present a little talk at E_M_L,
what we have done here
And so forth. So basically we can make a point that here is ontological knowledge but if it's nine - nine P_M in the evening then the discotheque question would be, for example,
Then what have we done so far? We had our little bit of, um,
That's the -  not  the construction parser. That's the, uh, tablet-based parser, and
Uh.  I'm looking for the University.
Um, I will talk about our problems with the rephrasing, and how we solved it, and some preliminary observations, also, um,
sort of feed you back to our original problem cuz, uh -
and then maybe talk about the big picture here, e- tell a little bit - as much as I  can about the N_T_L story.
of people envisioning how language understanding works,
talk a bit about the embodied and simulation approach favored here and as a prelude,
Um, and that's - now I'm not going to bring that. So that's basically what I have, so far, and the rest is for airplanes.
So X_schemas, then, I would like to do - talk about the construction aspect and then at the end about our Bayes-net.
then you should talk about the more  recent  stuff, about the kicking and, you know, the - yeah, yeah - and - that the plan is to see to what extent
and that we're planning to  do  this, um,
story would be nice to be - you know, it would be nice to tell people how - what's happening there, plus how the, uh, language learning
anal- there - the - there - we've got various i- generations of slides that show language analysis, and matching to the underlying image schemas, and,
Because, um, E_M_L is building up a huge thing in Leipzig.
uh, people in Italy but also definitely the people in Leipzig
I think  even   before  you  give  this,
unless  you put it in the text, and I don't think it's there yet,  about - we  talked  about is the, um,  scalability  that you get by, um,
combining the constructions with the general  construal  mechanism. Is that in there?
um, the main focus -
constructions,  that, uh, Nancy and Keith and friends are doing,
cover only base cases. And
to  metaphorical  cases and  metonymic  cases and all those things, requires this additional mechanism,
of  construal.  And the punch line is, he claimed,
if you do this  right,  you can get
uh, compose with all of the constructions.
So does that mean instead of having tons and tons of rules in your
these  base  constructs and then a general mechanism for coercing them.
idea of a source, path, and goal
and any metaphorical one - and abstract goals and all that sort of stuff  - you
So with construal you don't have to have a construction for every possible thing that can fill the rule.
um, there are physical containers, there are physical paths, there - you know, et cetera.
Oh, it doesn't mean that they're  unambiguous.  I mean, a cafe  can  be construed as a container, or it  can  be construed
you know as - as a obstacle, or as some physical object. So there are  multiple   construals.
anything else you want to  ask  us about
w- Well we have, for example, a canonical use of something and y- it's, you know, we have some constructions and then it's construed as something, and then we - we may get the same constructions with a metaphorical use
More - there's going to be the - just four computational linguists, by coincidence, but the rest is, whatever, biocomputing people and physicists.
O_K. So I would try to - I would stay away from one that involves weird construal stuff.
So it's a lot of pragmatics, there, that
of construal. So let's first do
So we're thinking about, um,
you know, despite the fact that this is  not  the most met- metaphorical domain, because people interacting with  H_T_I  systems try to be straightforward and less lyrical,
um, key in terms of finding out  any  of these things, so,
We, uh - I - with a - I looked - with a student I looked at the entire database that we have on Heidelberg for cases of metonymy.
Hardly anything. So not even in  descriptions
w- did we find anything, um,
I mean maybe the "where is something" question as a  whole,  you know, can be construed as, u- i- locational versus instructional request.
Also it  would  be nice to get - ultimately to get a nice mental  space  example, so, even  temporal  references are -
just in the  spatial  domain are rare.
Yeah, maybe we can include that also in our second, uh, data run. We c- we can show people pictures of objects and then
have then ask the system about the objects and engage in conversation on the history and the art and the architecture and so forth.
O_K. So why don't we plan to give you feedback electronically.
